1. For virtual env : py -3 -m venv venv
2. fast api for http server : pip install fastapi[all]
3. uvicorn used to start server : uvicorn main:app --relaod(app is server instance of fastapi)
4. pydantic - BaseModel (used like typescript, dto and schema validation of request payload) give classes and class variables.
5. fast api has Response, status, HTTPException
6. typing package contains datatype like int, str, optional
7. SQL queries
	INSERT INTO products (name, price) VALUES ('Tortia',300);
	SELECT * from products;
	DELETE FROM products where inventory = 0;
	UPDATE products SET name = 'TV44' WHERE id = 18 returning *;
	DROP TABLE products;
8. Pyscopg - PostgreSQL driver use to talk to postgres using sql command written in python code.
9. ORM(object relational Mapper) No more sql( present between fast api and db) ...Fast api talk with ORM and ORM talk with the db.
10. Install sqlalchemy (ORM library).
11. pip freeze use to check all install python packages.
12. db can be connected using database url created using dbhost,dbport,dbusername, db password, dbname.
13.1 SQL alchemy does not modify the table(like add column), because it checks that table is already there or not, if table it there it skips.
13.2 To connect the fast api to db, we need db url(create using dbhostname, dbport, dbusername, dbpassword, dbname), create db engine -> create dbsession by binding engine and use db session using dependacy injection, create model(table and schema) by inheriting the base class.
14. to handle or update or modify the table use alembic package.
15. Sqlalchemy is not able to handle migration properly we need alembic for that.
16. There is app or api router which is use to group the apis like users and post apis. 
17. Url for swagger http://localhost:8000/docs#/
18. Authentication ways session based authentication, jwt token based access token.( In session based token we store the loggedin user info in app server or database, where as in jwt token base we does not store any details in app as well as database(data store at client side).
19. Jwt token has 3 parts, header metadata like algo name and type , payload actual data of jwt and signature(which is used check whether the token's data or token is tempered or not).
20. Jwt it created using the secrete stored at BE. by using that secreate signature of token is created. so signature is created using header, payload and secrete and then sent to the client. if some once has change the data of jwt but can not create signature due to lack of secrete)
20.1
A signature is used to make sure that the data inside a token has not been changed or tampered with. When the server creates a token, it takes the Header and Payload and combines them with a private Secret to generate a Signature. The Header contains information about the token, while the Payload contains data such as id: 5938 and role: user. The Secret is known only to the server and is never shared with the client. The resulting Header, Payload, and Signature are then combined to form the Token, which is sent to the client.

When the client later sends this Token to an API, the API separates the Header, Payload, and Signature from the token. Since the API already knows the Secret, it takes the received Header and Payload and uses the Secret to independently generate a new Test Signature. The API then compares this newly generated Test Signature with the Signature that came inside the Token. If both signatures are the same, it means that the Header and Payload have not been modified after the token was created, so the API can trust the token and process the request.

For example, suppose the original Payload is id: 5938, role: user. If an attacker changes the Payload to id: 5938, role: admin, they would also need to generate a new valid Signature for this modified Payload. However, they do not know the Secret, so they cannot generate the correct Signature. The API will generate its own Test Signature using the modified Payload and its Secret, and this Test Signature will be different from the Signature present in the token. Therefore, the API detects that the token has been tampered with and rejects the request.

In short, the flow is:

Header + Payload + Secret
            ↓
        Signature
            ↓
   Header + Payload + Signature
            ↓
          Token
            ↓
        Sent to API
            ↓
API takes Header + Payload + Secret
            ↓
      Test Signature
            ↓
Compare:
Signature == Test Signature?
       ↓              ↓
      YES             NO
       ↓              ↓
   Valid Token     Invalid Token
   Allow Request   Reject Request

The main purpose of the Signature is therefore not to hide the Payload, but to provide integrity and authenticity—it helps the API verify that the token was generated by someone who knows the Secret and that the signed data has not been modified.
21. passlib for password hashing and python-jose[cryptography] library for jwt. algo HS256 used.
22. Primary and foreign key relationship, there is inDelete primary key onDelete=cascade also delete the foreign key records.
24. relation in the model used to send the extra data in the responce payload.
23. Query params.
24. for env, in production it is set in the machine like operating system env. use pydantic_settings package for the env loading, pydantic_settings skips the .env file if it founds the env in os env. other wise takes .env file automatically.
25. Composite key -> primary key that spans multiple columns (postid+userid)
26. Join query
SELECT * FROM posts LEFT JOIN users ON posts.user_id = users.id; (means every rows of post table and match user_id with rows or user table)
27. We can get counts of records in SQL queries and group the things as well ->
SELECT users.id COUNT(*) from posts LEFT JOINT users on posts.user_id = users.id GROUP BY users.id
28. Alembic use for the migration and incremental changes. 
29. alembic --help -> alembic init <folderName> then env.py inside the alembic folder configure the db url and models.(This command usefull for all the functions required for migration)
29.1 alembic revision -m <migration file name> user to create migration file.
29.2 write the migrations like op.create table also write drop table thing( file has two things upgrade and downgrade functions.
29.3 Commands
- alembic init <foldername>
- alembic revision -m <migrationfilename>
- alembic --help
- alembic current (gives current migration applied)
- alembic revision --help
- alembic upgrade --help
- alembic heads (give latest migration created)
- alembic revision --autogenerate -m 'add vote table' (automatic adds the columns definition in migration file) this follows alembic heads to apply.
29.4 After alembic tables which was created using orm, now they are going to create using alembic
30. pip freeze > requirement.txt ... create requirement.txt at root level contains all the packages. and to install pip install -r requirement.txt
31. Deploy the app using Heroku, Install Heroku and deploy the app (https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-python)
32. digitalOcean(Cluade platform) is used to provide server(do ssh in cmd)
33. do ssh in cmd, install necessarcy package like python and PostgreSQL
**34 - There are command to change user in shell and 

SOURCE - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0sOvCWFmrtA
TIME_LINE_COMPLETED - 11:34:00



